Welcome everyone to this lecture on this sub query in this lecture.
We're going to be discussing how to perform a sub query as well as how to use the exist function in
conjunction of a sub query a sub query allows you to construct more complex queries essentially performing
a query on the results of another query or using the results of another query.
The syntax is relatively straightforward and involves the use of to select statements let's imagine
some hypothetical table that consists of the student names and their resulting test scores.
So it's very simple table of just two columns which means a standard query on this table if you wanted
to grab everything would look like the following we say select the student column comma great column
from test scores and this will return back to columns a student's name such as A and then the grade.
Let's say ninety five percent let's imagine you wanted to grab the average grade across the entire class.
Then you would just say select average grade from test scores.
So we already know how to cram all the information from the table as well as the average score or average
grade from all the students relative as you wanted to answer this question.
How can we get a list of students who scored better than the average grade given what we already know
so far it looks like we need to actually do this in two steps.
First we would have to get the average grade and then write that down somewhere and then compare that
to the rest of the table against it to filter out the students.
This is where we can actually as a sub query so this is worries so query can help us get the results
in a quote unquote single query request.
Essentially just need to type out everything one time.
So the way we do this is the following.
We would say select student grade from test scores where grade is greater then and here in parentheses.
We have our sub query where we're going to have select average grade from test scores.
So notice what we're doing here.
We're first going to run the code that's inside the parentheses.
The sub query that's going to return back the average grade across the table then we're gonna be able
to use that result in order to select students who have grades greater than the average.
So we're call that inside the parentheses since this is gonna be run first.
This is going to yield some sort of result such as 70 and then once that sub query is done and returns
its results sequels then going to run this other query outside of the sub query so you'll end up getting
a list of students and the grades where they happen to be above 70 or whatever the average happens to
be.
So this allows us to simply type this out instead of having to do two separate queries writing the results
out of one and then using it in another.
And this is now going to be flexible to any changes within the table.
The sub query is performed first since inside the parentheses.
Keep in mind we can also use the in operator in conjunction of a so query to check against multiple
results returned.
For example let's imagine we wanted a sub query that operated using a separate table.
So we wanted to grab the students in grades from the test scores table where the student student happened
to be present inside another table so we could do this if a join.
Possibly but the other way we could do it is with a sub query so we could in our sub query say select
the student name from the honor roll table and then that will yield back some results of the student
names.
For example let's say Zac Chris and Carissa are the students in the honor roll and then after that some
queries and executing we can say select a student and their grade from test scores where a student is
in this list of students.
So note here this seems to follow along very similar to a join but sometimes especially for complex
queries it's easier to think of them as a sub query.
Now the exists operator is used to test for the existence of rows in a sub query.
Typically a sub query is passed in the existing function to check whether or not any rows are returned
with a sub query so the typical syntax would look like this.
We say select some column name from some table name where exists and then the actual sub query so select
column name from table name where we have some sort of condition and then that's going to return true
or false depending on whether or not there were any rows returned so some queries and exists are really
best learned through example.
So let's go ahead and jump the PGI admin and work through some examples of using a sub query as well
as the exist function within PGI admin.
Okay here I am inside PGI admin.
Let's go ahead and work through an example similar to what we saw in the slides of a sub query so to
do this I'm going to first select everything from the film tables so we can remind ourselves what the
format is it looks like the film table has film the title description etc. and it also has a rental
rate.
Let's go ahead and calculate or return back the films that have a rental rate that is higher than the
average rental rate for all the films similar to the test score example.
So the way we do that is we start off by it depending on how you want to work this from the inside out
for the outside in.
Let's go ahead and start with the sub query so the sub create should be first calculating that average
rental rate so the average rental rate of all the films we expand on this can go ahead and see it's
two dollars and ninety eight cents.
So this is going to be our sub query instead of having to use the scratch pad and write down this number.
Let's go ahead and have this be more dynamic.
Wrap this in parentheses.
So now it's a sub query and then we're going to do is say select go ahead and select the title column
and the rental rate column from the film table where and he were going to say rental rate is greater
than it's going to be greater than the results of this sub create which is two dollars and 98 cents
which means when I run this I should see back all the rental rates here for another nine to ninety nine
et cetera.
These are all greater than two dollars and 98 cents.
Okay.
So notice here that the sub query in parentheses will get executed first in order to calculate that
average and then it becomes part of this larger query.
The other thing that's important to notice is this particular sub query returns back just a single value.
The average rental rate which means it's OK to use comparison operator against such as is equal to is
greater than is less than if you're sub query however returns back multiple values then you need to
use the in operator on it.
So let's work through a more complex example where we're going to actually use a join a long face sub
query to some queries can actually have a joint in it.
So first let's explore a couple of tables that we haven't seen in a while.
So I just wanna make sure we remember them.
I'm going to select everything from the rental table.
So if we run this expand this back out again we have a rental i.e. the rental date inventory I.D. customer
I.D. and then we have a return date which is we're going to be focusing on and then a staff I.D. and
a lab or at last update.
We also have inventory so let's check our inventory table run that this has an entire inventory I.D..
Fill my the story.
And then alas update there so let's imagine we have a situation where I want to actually grab the film
titles that have been returned between a certain set of dates.
So if we go back to select everything from rental we have this rental date let's go ahead and grab all
the films that have been returned between let's say May twenty ninth of 2005 and May 30th of 2005.
So that would be select in this case everything from rental and then we're gonna do here is say where
this return date if we come back here we have the return date is between
2005 and let's say May 29 and 2005 May 30th.
So you run this and now these everything here has been returned basically on May 20 9th.
OK so notice here that in the actual rental table I do not have the film I.D. So if I want to film I.D.
I'm going to need to return to join this rental table with inventory which actually connects the inventory
I.D. because those here I have an inventory I.D. so I can use that in conjunction of the inventory table
to then grab the film I.D..
So I have a specialized primary key for each rental and then I have the inventory I.D. so I'm going
to use that.
So let's say instead of select everything from rental we're going to say select inventory the film I.D.
from rental and let's perform at joint on this.
So we'll say inner join on inventory
on inventory the inventory I.D. equal to rental inventory.
Make sure we spelled this right inventory underscore I.D..
Let me zoom out just a tad.
We can see this whole thing.
So what I'm doing here is I'm going to grab the film I.D. from the inventory table because it's not
available to me on the rental table.
And then I can use the inventory I.D. column that happens to be in both inventory and rental table in
order to join these together and then I'm filtering based off the return date.
And if you want you can specify the return date being part of the rental table but it's only found in
the rental table so you can either do where rental that return date or just return date because it's
exclusive to just one of the tables.
So you don't need specify what actual table we're looking at.
So let's go ahead and run this and now I get back this list of film I.D. So this is a list of all the
film I.D. that happened to be returned between these two dates.
Now let's imagine I wanted the title of these.
Well what I could do is I could use this as my sub query and I have this list of results which means
I can use the N operator again.
Note this sub query is returning back multiple results so I can use the in operator and I can just say
select fill my d comma title from film where the film I.D. is in and then we have this list of film
I.D..
So I run this and now I get back the film might be as well as the title.
Keep in mind postcard sequel is going to operate this as efficiently as possible.
So the order is not going to be maintained if you do want to do some sort of ordering.
You would do that at the very end after this last parentheses because technically this so query happens
first.
It gives you back that list then you organize everything here and then at the very bottom on the last
line make sure it's outside the princes of the subgroup you can say order by something like title and
it will order by title or alternatively you can order by the film.
OK so that is a sub query using the in operator because a sub query returns back multiple results and
finally let's walk through an example of using the exists operator.
Let's imagine we wanted to find customers who have at least one payment whose amount is greater than
11 and we actually want to grab the first name and last name of those customers the way we can do this
using the exists operator is the following we'll say select the first name and last name from the customer
table and we'll go ahead and say customer as C where and this is where we're going to use the exists
operator.
So recall that the existing operator basically just checks to see if Rose exists in the actual returns
sub query.
So that means we're gonna do this.
We're going to say exists in the subcommittee will say select what's going to select everything from
and we'll say payment as P where let's put this on multiple lines it's a bit easier to read.
We'll say where p the customer I.D. is equal to C which is the original customer table thought customer
I.D. and amount is greater than 11.
So now all we're doing here we're going to say select the first name and last name from the customer
table where and then the exists operator is checked to see if any rows a return based off this sub query
where we're saying select everything from the payment table where the payment customer I.D. matches
the customer I.D. and the amount they paid which comes from the payment table if you want.
You could say P the amount but amount is exclusive to the payment table.
So we don't need to clarify further is greater than 11.
So if we run this we get back the names of.
In this case if I expand on this these eight people.
So it's the first and last names of people who happen to have at least one payment whose amount is greater
than eleven dollars so in this example what's happening is for each customer in the customer table the
sub query checks the payment table to find if that customer made at least one payment.
So if that particular customer made at least one payment using this matching criteria and that the amount
is greater than 11 if you wanted to do the opposite of this essentially check for customers that have
not made any payment greater than eleven dollars you could add a not operator in front of exists there
run this and then you would get back basically any customer that wasn't happened that did not happen
to be one of those eight customers.
Okay that's it.
And I'll see you at the next lecture.